Hello ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to The Right Opinion, the home of a twat with too much free time, and the past.
It's a strange thing, and one that in times like these we probably long for more than ever.
Although I do relate to this sentiment more than you can possibly know, I likely wouldn't take anyone other than the person I am today,
minus the chronic health issues of course.
Yes, if we could transpose the current version of ourselves to past scenarios, then that's the choice that many would probably take,
it would likely save me and others from unnecessary disputes and distress.
However, at the same time, without many of those past scenarios, we probably wouldn't be where we are today.
In many ways, it's a paradoxical conundrum, and the best you can do is be thankful for your present wisdom.
As internet dwellers, we tend not to talk about our possibly tainted backstories too much, because other people have a nature to be quite judgemental,
and if that's not who we are today, then what right do people really have to know?
However, it's almost always important we keep the past in mind, because if not, we may be destined to repeat it,
and for many people, that's the last thing that we want.
With that said, there are some who will repeat it regardless, whether they know it's wrong or not,
and for those individuals, well, we may have to be a bit more vocal in how we reprimand them.
This is especially true if those individuals hold a relative amount of influence as, say, I don't know, a YouTuber,
with dedicated fans probably serving as a role model for a fair proportion of them.
What about when said drama involves your followers?
Well then, let's discuss today's topic.
Dude, this movie is f***ing amazing.
God, these 3D special effects are so realistic.
Look how realistic it is, man.
Yeah, exactly.
When does Eddie Murphy show up? That's all I want to know.
He shows up right f***ing now, 3D f***ing now!
Hahahaha!
Gamers unite, yes.
Once more, we are heading back to that corner of YouTube to set the backdrop for today's discourse,
and we'll begin by talking about one of the titans of the gaming community, Vanoss.
Vanoss- I was born in the darkness.
I was born a bat.
But I didn't see the light until I saw a new man.
And by then, there was nothing to be populated.
Hahahaha!
Come on, Bane, fight me like a man!
Combo breaker!
Who are you? I don't know!
Hahahaha!
That's not fair, Bane was low on health.
Evan Fong, also known as VanossGaming, is a creator who posts montage-style content of him and his friends playing a variety of video games.
On paper, it sounds fairly unexceptional, but the editing and interplay between Fong and his comrades has garnered widespread attention from viewers,
establishing his channel as a cornerstone in the YouTube gaming subculture that has flourished in the past decade.
On his channel, he would feature a retinue of creators who would aid that back and forth energy that buoyed his content.
This roster would evolve over the years, but one individual who became a pretty regular fixture on the channel during the mid-2010s was a gentleman by the name of Minilad.
We must save Minilad.
We have to save him.
What?
We are going to save you!
Yeah!
Thank God!
But first...
What?
Let's play with this new Batmobile toy.
Oh yeah!
Not now!
Yeah!
Craig Thompson, aka Minilad, is a British creator who, like many others from his era, amassed success through videos where he indulged his gamer tendencies.
He set up his channel in 2011 while still in school, uploading mostly gameplay footage.
He quickly made inroads into the gaming community, even being featured as the gamer of the week in iHasCupquake's discontinued series.
Nonetheless, it would be a couple years before he would achieve any significant prosperity, with ratings being to pick up at the turn of 2013, after which point his channel rarely lost momentum.
In this time, Minilad also became rather involved in Vanoss Gaming's Banana Bus squad, named after a vehicle in Grand Theft Auto V.
This was mostly composed of Vanoss' inner circle of collaborators, including many other prominent creators such as H2O Delirious, Moose Knuckle, Louis Caliber, and I Am Wildcats.
With such an entourage, there was little doubt that Craig was certainly amongst the stars, and like many of his colleagues, his growth came quickly and substantially.
As he passed each million milestone with increasing finesse, it appeared that he had mastered his niche.
What niche is that?
Well, to be honest, I'm not entirely sure.
When looking up what people enjoyed about Minilad's content, I wasn't met with an overwhelming deluge of answers.
He was sufficiently inoffensive, decent at the games themselves, and did conceive some very original ideas,
but most of his accomplishments appear to be based on intelligent networking and a persistent upload schedule in an era where some creators do seem a little stale in hindsight.
There's too much Italian in here.
It's fine. It's fine. Keep your eyes on the sky. Keep your eyes on the sky, I'm not on my mustache.
Now, this isn't to his discredit. In many ways, Vanoss Gaming was the archetype of an extremely effective business model,
and the fact that other people wanted to recreate it made complete sense.
And like many of his colleagues, Minilad represented a clique of YouTubers that intelligently generated cyclical views through association and collaboration,
which overall has worked out quite well for them.
Whereas many gamers from that era may have fallen from their distinguished pinnacles,
a multitude of creators involved with these squads have managed to retain a consistent viewer base, even if it's not quite what it used to be.
Hell, in 2017, Minilad had one of the best years on his channel, capitalizing on the pivot to facecam and reaction-based content,
likely acquiring a fair few new subscribers in the process.
I never want to lose that connection with you guys, if you know what I mean.
And with that, I mean, I want to be able to, like, give back, in a way.
And that's why I want to go to all these conventions to meet you guys, and I want to do as many signings as possible,
and I want to meet you guys and spend the most amount of time with everyone, and I don't know, I'll forever be thankful for everything you lads have gave me.
It's just, life is a crazy ride.
Although Minilad's personality may not have been the most distinct, he was still held in high esteem by many within the community,
most notably for the numerous charity drives he had hosted.
For many, in a time where power seemed so prone to being abused, it was refreshing that there were still people like Minilad out there using their influence for the good of the world.
He was a board member on the, interestingly named, Thirst Project, an organization focused on delivering clean water to deprived communities,
also raising $150,000 over the space of two streams in 2018, very admirable indeed.
Nevertheless, it seems that Craig here still had a few steps to take to truly define himself as an individual creator.
These steps were mostly taken in 2018.
With his distancing from VanossGaming a couple years prior, the launch of his personal vlog channel, and undertaking of more ambitious ventures,
it looked like Thompson wanted to alter his trajectory and be the master of his own destiny.
As a creator, he had the capacity to stand on his own two feet, and no one who was going to impede this, no one other than himself, of course.
But what was the chance of that happening? I think we were all ready to see what the true Minilad was capable of.
He is so good at manipulation, it is terrifying, it is so scary.
But there were a few complications, and what one may have hoped to be a new beginning gradually manifested into a spiral back down one's past,
one that may not even be worthy of escape.
So, my friends, I invite you to join me on a voyage which has many uncomfortable yet unnecessary steps,
and I think we need to begin this endeavor as soon as we can. Let us go.
In the gaming sphere, Vanoss felt often like the root nexus, and with the applied formula to accumulate viewers between creators,
an association was often formed. When many thought of Minilad, they thought of Vanoss.
It can't be a surprise with Minilad's numerous appearances on the channel, in many ways it seemed to create an inalienable connection.
Nonetheless, Minilad wanted to be his own creator, but to what extent would he go to achieve this?
As aforementioned, one of the first moves that Minilad took to delineate his route was leaving Vanoss Gaming.
Now, in some senses, this was unexceptional news, he's not the first, and he won't be the last to leave a channel that has a rotating ensemble.
He stopped appearing in their videos regularly around the turn of 2016, but still appeared friendly with many of their members,
even releasing videos with them throughout the following year.
It was generally accepted, at the time, he had left for reasons that were related to how he viewed himself in regards to the channel.
He had spoken about this on Twitter previously, and seemed insecure on how some people perceived him as Vanoss' friend,
rather than his own person. However, given how involved he had been, there were obviously some who were going to be a bit taken aback.
Not everyone was going to be aware of the assumed reasons, and eventually questions began to arise.
As time passed, he appeared to fraternize with his former brethren less and less, and as distance grows, so will the volume of questions.
With some even memeing those who were curious regarding MiniLad's newfound independence.
Now, nobody was entitled to further explanation, I'm sure there were many instances where someone had asked,
and Thompson had chosen to ignore the eager Inquisitor. However, on one fateful day in 2018,
our Mini friend felt compelled to clear up any ambiguity hanging over the outstanding situation.
The only thing I want to ask is how? Come, you don't play with VanossGaming?
Wow, because I don't play Gmod anymore. That's all he does. Question done.
Also, I'm also breaking off into a solo YouTuber, because it's a lot more fun.
Now, Garry's Mod was a game that MiniLad had found decent traction with back in the day, but by this point, it had been popular for a long time,
and although a lot of people still played it, it was understandable you may be a bit burnt out on such a pastime.
Now, MiniLad's statement was a hyperbole, Gmod isn't all they play, but at the same time, the implication was clear,
that they didn't share the same interests anymore. This was certainly a surprise given the prior hypotheses,
and some may have found his tone a little hostile, but that can equally be frustration or exhaustion at the continued questioning of a personal decision.
At the time, MiniLad was one of a substantial number of people to distance themselves from VanossGaming,
which had led some to theorize about the imminent decline of the channel, with a few speculative claims here and there.
Still, no matter how close-knit the crew appears to be, there have been some events that caused, and are still causing, its downfall,
so today we'll be looking into 10 reasons why the Vanoss crew is potentially falling apart.
The foundation of the Vanoss crew was shaken when Craig Thompson, aka MiniLad, decided to stop playing with Vanoss,
and dissociated himself from the crew.
There was really nothing to supplement people's theories here, there had always been this slight tension between creators that had been picked up by observant fans,
but disagreements happened, people could still be friends, there was a bit of drama being stirred up, and MiniLad came forward to dispel those claims
and affirm that he and Vanoss were still friends, and there was no bad blood between them.
With this in mind, the case went cold, and their bond at least seemed cordial, but how long would that last for?
Well, let's fast forward to 2019, and MiniLad was streaming, as he often does, but once again he is sidetracked by the fact that Vanoss are still uploading Gmod videos,
prompting him to go off on a bit of a rant, with a tone of exasperation.
I also have no idea, they're still playing Gmod. Damn. For all this time, they're still playing Gmod?
I mean, they kicked me out of all their chats, so I have no idea what the hell they're doing, so they're still playing that, damn.
But okay, maybe I'd be a bit bothered if I was kicked from a chat with a bunch of people who I thought were my friends, it does seem a bit personal,
but MiniLad then has a few clarifications to add.
Just to clear up some shit, I wasn't kicked, all they did was play Fortnite and Gmod and then talk shit about other YouTubers, so I said fuck that.
I broke away from that group, I'm doing my own thing, I've never felt better, my community's stronger than ever, I'm pulling more views than ever,
and I'm personally a lot more happy as a human, so that's what happened. Anyways.
So he wasn't kicked, in fact, he left of his own accord, because he wasn't happy with the direction of the chats.
He decided to take a stand for himself, and now he is thriving, he's never been better, and you can tell it's true because you have his word.
However, many would've found it strange he was once more saying this after all this time had elapsed, but this is what happens when distance grows between individuals,
most latter perceptions arise from how you reflect on situations as opposed to how they happened.
With that said, if MiniLad only held fond memories with the Vanoss crew, it would be unlikely he would ever feel the need to malign them.
It once more seemed like the surfacing of previously latent resentment towards his former posse, one that may have been around for longer than many assume.
In 2016, before any of this drama transpired, a post was made titled Some Things You Should Know About MiniLad.
It's presented through the eyes of a follower of Craig and the rest of the Vanoss crew, and recounts a convention story where Mini appeared to be exhibiting some pretty seething jaundice for his popular colleague.
The fan writes that not too long after the meetup, they overhear MiniLad vocally tearing into Vanoss for appearing late, while also making further comments concerning his status,
including the claim that he didn't even like video games, and didn't start playing them until Call of Duty 4, the absolute noob.
This person obviously defends Vanoss for a plethora of reasons, and goes on to observe other instances where MiniLad has decried an aspect of Vanoss,
the banana bus squad, or their dynamic. They state that it seems to be a pattern of distaste that he has displayed for the crew,
and that others should be cautious as to the reliability of what he says due to the underlying animosity.
Now, this is just a personal account, however, it is aged rather well due to details we'll discuss in a bit, so I doubt it was written with the intent to mislead,
and it would explain past and present behaviour pretty accurately, so let's bring it back to 2019, and Mini's newfound groove in doing better than ever has clearly made him more outspoken.
That poor man's never gonna let that down, poor bastard.
And to an extent, it was true, MiniLad had rarely been more successful than where he was in April 2019.
It seems his confidence had reached a point where he was ready to disconnect from the Vanoss crew altogether, and this diatribe served as the severing blow.
However, with his remarks, MiniLad, by all intents and purposes, ended any possible good faith between the two parties that may make him hesitant to speak out.
Nonetheless, this was just an aside comment, what could tangibly follow from such an inconsequential statement?
MiniLad- Why isn't Craig in the server?
Well...
Trash Talk doesn't go too far in the gaming community, given that it's part of the culture in many ways.
Now, of course, this isn't just in-game swordplay, this was an individual pretty savagely laying into his former friends.
At the same time, this was a comment on a stream, not a formal upload loaded with serious allegations.
It wouldn't really warrant a belated response on its own basis.
Besides, MiniLad had made similar comments the year before, and nothing had come of them.
Drama between creators in a community that doesn't really have a desire for it is seldom beneficial for either party involved.
However, just because it's not beneficial doesn't mean it's not going to happen if someone feels inclined to express themselves.
MiniLad- I think I'm in the f***ing vlog movie.
Everyone laughs.
This is Terrorizer, or Brine.
He's a creator who has played with Vanoss and many of his associates, but is also in part known for his voice impressions,
which range from celebrities such as Arnold Schwarzenegger to composite characters like Asian Guy, a Vanoss favourite, I'm sure.
But I digress, he had previously collaborated with MiniLad on videos, appearing to be on friendly terms with Craig up until 2018,
when like many others associated with Vanoss, he stopped appearing on the MiniLad channel.
Now, MiniLad wasn't the only individual questioned over the ostensible disintegration of the relationship between two parties,
but until June he had been the only person to really speak about it, in a passionate way.
As noted, many creators involved with Vanoss strike one as rather drama averse.
This is not the first time conflict has arisen between one of their colleagues, I'm sure it won't be the last,
but few had sought to leave their input up until that point, likely knowing the risk of unnecessary quarrels.
Someone like Vanoss, known to be quite withdrawn from public life, would certainly not be compelled to defend himself.
However, in one June stream, facing questions once again from eager fans,
Terrorizer made the decision that actually, he wasn't going to hold back his feelings any longer.
Why isn't Craig in the server? Because he doesn't play with us anymore. He went off and left us, and then started badmouthing us,
so he doesn't play with us anymore. He can't have it every way, so we play with people who have not left our chat.
We have a chat, he left it, and he doesn't want to play with us. That's a question for him, not us.
Now, his comments don't exactly contradict those by MiniLad, however, his tone and phrasing demonstrate a clear disdain for what Mini had purported in his stream.
However, as I'm sure he was aware, such a comment would not quell many supporters angst, and would almost certainly lead to more questions than answers.
Given the now noticeable tension between the two, people's curiosity persisted, and in August 2019, when asked again,
Terrorizer resolved to elaborate on his previously expressed sentiments, however, they didn't appear to be any more affectionate.
Why not invite Mini? I'll tell you why. He doesn't play with us. He left, and then he decided on stream to badmouth myself and my friends,
well, mainly just my friends, and I didn't appreciate that. So, I don't play with the guy lately, because he's going on his meme streams,
talking shit about us. It's not cool. So, that's why.
In spite of this, however, it seems that Terrorizer didn't want to talk about it much further, declaring that he didn't want to stoop to Craig's level.
I think he said something on the livestream about our girlfriends, which I think is a bit of a cop-out.
Well, it's not a fair conversation to have when another person's not here, you know? You guys coming to me, I could give you a very biased opinion on stuff,
but he went off, and he said some things on his livestream which really kind of annoy me about our group of friends and stuff,
and I'm just like, I don't know. I don't like people doing that. He said some stuff, and I don't want to resort to start saying stuff on my livestream about stuff.
So, with respect to you guys, I'm not going to do that, but I don't want to go into it, man, honestly. No disrespect to you guys, but it's none of your business.
Now, honestly, I do not know what level I'd class Craig's comments as. They're nothing too defamatory, but I suppose as the person who made allegations about the nature of Banos and friends,
there was still a bar set, and at that point, Terrorizer hadn't really done anything other than present his own version of events, and chose not to take it further,
which is fair enough, but unfortunately, Mini-Lad had other plans. Yes, on August 29th of 2019, Craig released a statement to Twitter,
with the intent to clear the air, however, this post doesn't exactly tell the story that we've seen so far.
He starts off by announcing the intent of this post, that being to address the rumours that he hates everyone he used to play with,
but clearly turns his attention to the visible friction between him and Terrorizer. Craig explains that this was in part because,
at the 2018 E3 convention, Brian made disparaging remarks regarding Mini's mental health, and then reinforced his comments in spite of Mini-Lad's discernible anguish.
Since he had not apologised, Mini-Lad no longer considered them on friendly terms. However, Craig goes one step further,
alleging that Terrorizer had been disseminating misinformation on his streams about how Mini-Lad was now at odds with much of the Banos fleet.
He rebukes this, and provides anecdotal evidence which contradicts this narrative, and affirms that he is still affable with Evan,
and many others who are active on his channel. Although Mini is unhappy at having to publish his thoughts on the matter,
he knows that people will be better off for being aware of this, and still wishes the best for Brian on his endeavours.
With this, he signs off, a testament to Mini's class and maturity, I'm sure we can all agree.
But wait, wasn't that something we missed?
Mini-Lad admitted some pretty essential details which are necessary to understanding how the situation precipitated.
That being, he was the person who chastised Banos in his own streams, with his comments implying that they were at best elitist and at worst rather petty.
For him to suddenly frame Brian as the instigator as if he had attacked Mini unprovoked is dishonest and pretty slimy on his behalf,
particularly given how it could have affected Terrorized's friendships with the Banos circle.
I also found it interesting how Mini-Lad was more comfortable referring to Banos as a collective now that he was no longer part of the channel.
Minor observations aside, why would he frame it in such a way?
Now, of course, the obvious answer would be to shield his image, however, as a seasoned creator, he must have been aware of the ramifications when people found out that he had twisted much of the information, right?
Well, not entirely, because at the time there wasn't really much of a clear record of what had been said, and Mini-Lad could have easily just passed the responsibility of rumours onto viewers who presented him with a one-sided portrait.
Now, in due course, a compilation of Mini's comments would be uploaded to one place, chronicling the saga in rather clinical fashion, but until then, although the evidence could be unearthed in certain places on YouTube,
it was often overrun by Mini-Lad's rather smart tone, the reasonable voice. He knew that many people wouldn't want to pick a side, so in spite of the gross misrepresentations,
many felt sympathetic to him and his point of view, seeing his recent tone as an indicator of good faith.
On top of this, many felt that his reasons for distancing himself from Terrorizer were valid, after all, it's just not right that someone make such comments about mental adversity pertaining to another person's life,
and as a long-term advocate for mental health, it was understandable that Mini would take offence to that, especially if Brian hadn't subsequently butchered on his position.
But was this the full story, either?
With the flaws in Mini-Lad's statement, Terrorizer was quick to respond on his Twitter account, firstly, quote, tweeting it with his own retort, expressing discontent at many of Mini's aforementioned misrepresentations,
while also drawing attention to Craig's recollection of comments Brian had made towards him, asserting that our gamer friend's portrayal was pure slander.
Mini responded shortly after, stating that it was a near-quote, once again affirming it was the reason that he stopped speaking to Terrorizer.
He then says that if Brian wishes to resolve it, then they can talk over DMs, after all, he wouldn't want a spat in public for all the fans to see.
However, Brian once more calls Mini out on this, observing the hypocrisy of making a call-out post accessible to the community, before requesting the discretion that he couldn't previously provide his former friend.
Then, in quite a surprising twist, another one of the Vanoss crew decided to impart their thoughts on the matter.
You know that group that Mini-Lad claims to be on such good terms with.
Well, it seems that Dahi Denogla was not ecstatic about Mini's behaviour, and in a reply, also called Craig out on his double standards,
contending that if he wants to talk it out in private, then he should delete his tweets, a fairly valid point.
Mini responds that Brian's point of view is already on YouTube, and people deserve to hear his side as well.
Dahi then responds, requesting this evidence, and unfortunately, as Mini has deleted his tweets, I'm unsure of whether he ever obliged and subsequently provided,
but whether he did or not, it wouldn't have changed the fact that Mini had instigated this long before.
Dahi and others were picking up on this, and applying a reasonable amount of pressure to good ol' Mr. Lad over here.
A lot of fans, however, were clearly upset and disappointed that two people who they both greatly admired were squabbling on their timeline,
and in these situations, the easiest way to yield a resolution is to take it to the DMs, and many advised them to do so.
A lot of the audience did not want to pick size, and I empathise with that greatly, as a fan, I would be upset as well.
However, this wasn't a case of differing perspectives, this was a situation where one person had greatly misrepresented another,
and although I tend to use words like slander a bit more carefully, it was still a very smarmy post that morally postures a fabricated position,
embedding itself in subtly self-aggrandising narratives to distract from its actual lack of content.
One of those being the narrative of mental health, a topic so close to Mini Lad's heart.
Now, if Mini was as concerned about mental health as he claimed to be, he'd be aware of how such a post could affect another individual,
their fan base, and their working relationships, and as we'll find out later, he does know exactly how it operates.
Now, if he was genuinely under the impression that Terroriser had said everything he had claimed to unprovoked,
then maybe, maybe it would have justified a response, but it's very hard to circumvent the fact that Mini started this world before,
and there was no way he could not have been aware of that.
Terroriser was clearly upset at these claims, and subsequently published a very comprehensive Twitlonger,
responding to Craig's initial assertions.
Turn of the Post explains his position in a way that we would expect it to, framing his comments as a reaction to Mini's in-stream overtodictor.
This is all fairly unextraordinary, we know what transpired here, however, one question mark still lingered over the nature of their running at the convention the year before,
the one where Mini Lad alleges that Brian had made rather deprecating comments towards his mental state.
Terroriser wholeheartedly repudiates this though, not just rejecting the idea that he had hectered Craig,
but recalling the times that he had supported Mini in his mental hardship.
He expands on why he hadn't responded to Mini's messages regarding them as mostly inconsiderate attempts to elicit an apology.
He talks about the quote, Mini's subsequent backtracking, and the hypocrisy of Craig's expectation of private resolution after making it public himself,
stuff we've also discussed, but having Terroriser's testimony backed up with the corresponding evidence
only further entrenched the idea that Mini Lad had purposely distorted the circumstances surrounding their ongoing conflict.
However, on top of this, it implicated Mini as not merely insensitive to much of what he claimed to hold dear,
but as weaponising it, in an attempt to damage the reputation of someone he had bad blood with.
It was rather tasteless behaviour, and whether his fans were on his side or not, he had likely shot himself in the foot with many of his colleagues and collaborators
who would evaluate the happenings with a more critical eye.
The whole situation is kinda sad to be honest, and Terroriser himself was clearly troubled by the disputes.
Mini would later claim the drama had been patched up in another video.
However, Bryan denied this and stated that he felt Craig had made these comments to appease audience members who may feel uneasy about the incident.
It's a strangely deceptive practice on his part, and although he would eventually release a semi-apology,
his handling of the situation, even in representing the reconciliation, seems surprisingly insincere.
Mental wellbeing is an important part of everyone's lives, I don't think I can emphasise that enough.
We are often taught to do what's best for ourselves, which although true, may not always mean what a person thinks it means.
Mini Lad has spoken profusely about the topic of mental health, and the challenges it had regularly posed to him.
He had made multiple posts alluding to it, and raised money for charities that operated in the field,
but this behaviour seemed to not just discard, but abuse these principles, begging the question,
did mental health really matter to him, or was it just a vehicle to help him further his status,
and was this behaviour even exclusive to the subject of mental health?
It's all good to try and fix something in DMs, and then it just leaves, then what about the people who still think I make fun of mental health and don't care and I did that to them?
It's not going to go publicly and say, hey, actually, look, you know, maybe I was wrong or something? No, no, that's that situation, that sucks.
Well, we would soon find out.
In the following months, Mini would continue his charitable endeavours and selfless ventures, winning plaudits and even awards from across the board,
but you wouldn't be blamed if you'd been left with a slightly sour taste in your mouth from what we just discussed.
However, at the end of the day, it was one drama, and regardless of what can be said about Mini Lad's demeanour under those conditions,
you couldn't use it to define his legacy, no, you'd need something much more substantial for that, and after such a skirmish,
Mr Thompson would probably want to stay as far away from drama as possible, but maybe his fate had already been sealed.
The past is a funny thing, time may age it in the mind of some, but in the internet era, its significance is often only as relevant as the awareness of its existence.
Therefore, when you acknowledge it, you are in effect making the past the present.
This principle is what has yielded, for example, the contentious cancel culture, because although individuals involved may have progressed past the instant,
when it's uncovered, many feel inclined to judge it in the current context of today's ecosystem, which can often be starkly different to the environment that prevailed all those years ago.
However, some actions have always been wrong, and will likely continue to be wrong for the rest of time as long as we can possibly conceive,
and the surfacing of such allegations will often lead a creator to being held to account, whether they would have preferred to leave it behind or not.
So let's bring it forward to the present year, where like many other people, our good friend Mini-Lad had been struggling, even taking a break at the start of the new decade.
At this time, Mini-Lad had went through a rather tough breakup with his now ex-girlfriend, Sami, or Suni Day.
This became quite an emotional affair, and led Craig to take a hiatus from social media and uploading altogether.
They had been in a relationship for approximately two and a half years, so it was rational for him to be a little distraught over such misfortunes.
He published a tweet on the 4th of January informing people of their split, before posting another a week later apologising for the impulsivity of the former,
and any superfluous distress that it spawned amongst those close to him. This is then followed by the hiatus, lasting just over a month,
with a video posted on his main channel to celebrate his long way to return, and reflecting on the reasons behind this respite.
I struggle a lot with mental health issues. It's not something to just kind of brush aside, it's something you need to take seriously,
otherwise it's gonna catch up with you, and that's exactly what happened. So I was on tour, I was rushing videos out, I was just putting up anything I could,
I wasn't proud of the videos I was putting up, I was just, TAKE THIS! And then I came back from tour, and then Sami and I broke up.
In the video, he talks a lot about the developments in the previous months, the most notable being the separation, which he presents as difficult but amiable.
He also takes the time to clarify some of the uncertainty surrounding the circumstances of the breakup, not that the audiences were entitled to know,
but it seemed to be a better option than letting people draw their own less lenient conclusions, and perhaps voicing them as well.
As long as these were details that the pair were happy with divulging, then as uploads go, it was a mature, informative piece which handled the sensitivities of its subject with care and diplomacy,
and many paid him the due respect that such conduct would warrant, while respecting his will to share as much as he felt comfortable sharing,
this was the right time to clear the air.
I'm excited for this year! I can't tell you, I can't, but just trust me, this year's gonna be amazing.
Over the following months, Mini returned to his regular upload schedule, releasing the quality content that quenched his audience's desires,
however, there was trouble on the horizon. What did this trouble entail exactly? Well, let's go back to the old 2016 Tumblr post,
you know, the one that recounted MiniLad's slightly less than professional behaviours with Vanoss.
In the penultimate paragraph of the post, while continuing to document evidence of MiniLad's strained relationship with the Vanoss crew,
the author also observes that they had seen a pattern of Craig mingling with younger, and dare I say it, underage fans.
They say this isn't anything incriminating on its own, but it's worth noting given the trend.
With that said, this wasn't the first time that he had received a flack for his interaction with his fans,
in fact, in January of 2016, Mini partook in an exchange with the infamous Keemstar over comments he had made towards another Twitter user in the DM.
This was during Keem's internet crusade phase, which led to a lot of allegations, sometimes correct, sometimes not so correct,
so people took what he was saying with a pinch of salt. At some point after this, Keemstar deleted the tweets, and nobody archived them,
so I didn't think I was going to find anything here. However, I am a tenacious man, and I found some of the interactions alongside one tweet with the images in question,
and I must say they are something else, given that once again, this individual was alleged to be an underage fan.
I'll add alleged, his behaviour seems unbelievably inappropriate, framed through the lens of helping this person.
Ahaha, no don't be sad, you have nice boobs. Somehow he got off the hook here.
I think because people would be occupied with other controversies such as Lie Maker, Keemstar himself ended up in a controversy after running the infamous R.S. Lauren Gold story,
overshadowing many other situations at the time, and Mini's dismissive responses clearly worked in subduing any public arousal,
and he lived to fight another day. Nonetheless, it was clear that not everyone was ignorant to Mini's occasional improper fraternisation with younger audience members,
and although these rumours ever nested in the years succeeding, there was likely a suspicion that lingered within the pockets of the internet,
and come 2020, much of that misgiving would prove not entirely unfounded.
So let's bring back Craig's ex, Suni Day, of whom Mini had a rather extensive relationship with. In mid-June, the mistreatment and harassment of female Twitch streamers
became a pretty prevalent discussion in many online circles, and as a female Twitch streamer and victim herself, Sammy decided to impart her insight on the matter,
completely acceptable. However, this alarmed Craig, as from his perspective, given their rich history, many would assume that he was the person Suni was referring to,
and thus he anxiously reached out, requesting that his former partner clarify that he had not violated her in such a way.
Suni obliged, but in turn adding the caveat that this did not absolve him from other misdeeds that were present, including lies and manipulation,
even sharing some DMs, which although do not say too much on their own, certainly don't paint the split as friendly and mutual as Minilad had communicated in his video.
Yes, in clearing up one ambiguity, this tweet had revealed information that would inspire others to speak up, with much more damaging implications.
So allow me to introduce you to two individuals, this is Hallie, and this is Ash. Both of them were fans of Mini, and both have publicly confabulated with the YouTuber on numerous occasions,
Ash until the end of 2017, and Hallie right up to 2020, the latter having consistently lent her support to Craig in his online pursuits.
However, it seems that their experience with the award winning creator had a bit more background than one may expect,
and on June the 22nd, following Sami's all revealing tweets, both took to my favourite social media site to share their stories.
Publishing via Twitter longer again, Ash and Hallie lay out their less than stellar encounters with the creator,
alleging multiple accounts of improper behaviour with them, not just as fans, but as individuals who were not of age.
Now, this wasn't already the best look for our friend, however, it didn't stop there, in fact, it was barely the beginning, and that's not good when you're already 11 pages into a script.
Now, these stories tell a tale we are all too familiar with on this channel, presenting Minilad as a person who, burnt by the then recent collapse of another relationship,
turned his attention to those online to fill a void, specifically those from within his fanbase.
In this instance, the implication is that he specifically targeted younger fans, knowing their vulnerability, and the power he held over them as a creator.
We can't provide too many specific dates, but this appears to have transpired throughout 2016 mostly, and around the time he was reported on the Tumblr post to be socializing in many of these circles.
It's also alleged he had used his power to bargain for explicit content, which few would already condone,
but is particularly objectionable considering that Hallie and Ash were both around the age of 16 or 17, not being of legal standing to send such content in the first place.
However, these are elementary testimonies, and although it would be easy and justified to call Minilad out for such debauchery,
something that I will have no qualm in doing, I'd like to evaluate a few more details that would catch one's eye.
However, to take this discussion forward, or to even work from the premise of truth, we'd need a bit of substantiation behind these claims.
But Ash and Hallie were well equipped, dropping screenshots of DMs from multiple platforms, covering various points in their contact with the gaming icon.
In their Twitlongers, both individuals appear quite convinced that Minilad was consciously taking advantage of them for his own purpose.
Now, the word conscious there is pretty pivotal in the construction of that sentence, Minnie was not going to be treated gently with these revelations regardless,
but to be frank, the actual evidence made him look even worse.
Firstly, we'll turn to Ash, who released a series of screenshots dating from around the time where much of this misconduct is said to have occurred.
This not just helps in corroborating much of their assertions, but also many of the judgements.
Minilad's behaviour may merely be unbefitting in some, such as his messages to the group chat, but look beyond that and you'll see some pretty repulsive and manipulative behaviour,
which clearly shows Minnie's awareness of the rift in power between the two parties in question.
Probably the worst conversation captured is this one, where Ash clearly shows reluctance to share explicit images, understandably so,
and Minnie begins to encourage her in the way that a mentor would one of their students.
You can do it. I believe in you, take the leap and send me nudes.
It is preposterous, if someone doesn't feel comfortable, you respect that boundary, and as outlined in the Twitlonger,
this is not something that they would have done if it wasn't an individual with the clout that Minilad has,
and to me, it seems that Minnie was quite aware of this. It also doesn't help that Minnie holds what a person said when they were drunk over them,
as if it was some kind of ironclad pact. He also guiltbaits by saying that he's sad, which is another thing I've never been a fan of in general,
because it shows a lack of consideration for how the other person may feel. In certain circumstances, I can understand how it could be read in banterous fashion,
but not when it deals with the exchange of such matter. This is not mutual, it's nasty, coercive, and shows a prioritisation of personal
gratification over respect for the other party's autonomy. This is also supported by much of the individual testimony,
which focuses on how Minilad regularly used his depression as a means to acquire what he desired.
There's every trick in the book here, and I want you to keep this in mind going forward, not that it would be easy to forget.
There are multiple DMs on multiple platforms, and messaging services with the individuals involved that support these claims,
involving both parties where Minilad has sent and received explicit images, alongside video verification confirming the accounts
belonged to Minilad. This was already compelling. In a way, though, Minilad's 2016 antics were only half the story,
because when word of his behaviour began to make its way through these smaller communities, many sought to suppress these testimonies,
including Minilad himself, employing a plethora of strategies highlighted in screenshots posted by Hallie.
In these images, dating from the end of 2017, Hallie decides to confront Minnie about Ash, and the nature of their relationship,
asking some exploratory questions to gauge their connection. In his responses, Craig downplays any intimacy,
preventing inferences from being drawn regarding the content of their conversations. However, a few days later,
the tone of this discussion had shifted, and Minnie is pleading with Hallie to prevent this information from being publicised.
My favourite line here is when he says that there was nothing more than a specific message, before adding, and maybe a bit more of similar,
just to cover himself in case there were some additional exchanges exposed. Who knows, maybe there was? I don't know.
How would Minnie know? He barely remembers who Ash is. Hallie frames a lot of this dialogue as manipulation on Minnie's behalf,
and it's quite easy to see why. With the threat of incriminating evidence being released, he appeals to a lot of the consequences
that he will face. Now, his line of reasoning isn't incorrect here, there will be significant ramifications if these details
were to be dispersed, and he has a right to be worried about that, but it's an observation, not an argument,
and it can't really be used as a point against the publication of such content. Hallie makes it clear that she's aware of the
consequences, and Minnie reiterating again and again how awful it would be for him just seems to be an attempt to take
advantage of the good faith that Hallie shows him, and the sympathy that she may feel for the remorse he expresses.
This is a technique that is applied on multiple occasions when discussing the issue. A few days later, Minnie was caught in
another lie. When sent a screenshot from a snapchat conversation, he admits that he is one of the participants, but then
proceeds to claim that Ash had lied about her age. That would be a decent rebuttal if it was the truth, which it wasn't,
and a few days later, Hallie challenges Minnie once more on this fact, and this time he buckles, admitting that he knew she was
17, but that he was really depressed, and that he just thought if he was gonna end it there, he was gonna go out in a blaze of glory with lewd snapchat DMs.
Wow, real kamikaze mission there, Craig. It was rather desperate stuff on Minnie's part, however, Minnie Lad wasn't the only person attempting to conceal his wrongdoings.
In fact, some of the mods from his Discord server decided to take it upon themselves to defend their King's honor, some adopting the
there will be repercussions argument, others claiming that he had changed, both points of view espoused by Minnie Lad himself.
I found a lot of these explanations quite embarrassing given the additional context. With that said, it was clearly effective, as no one
ousted him publicly at that time, and many clearly did believe that he deserved a second chance. However, that second chance was all used up by the time
that Sun Yudai had informed the internet that Minnie Lad's antics were still prevalent throughout their relationship, which is what inspired
Ash and Halle to share their stories. Over the years, he had continuously pledged to improve, to seek help, and as it became clear that he had
merely used their pity to preserve his public image while not actively changing his ways, their charity had diminished, and this was the breaking point.
Beyond that, this was their ultimatum to Craig, and Minnie Lad could no longer postpone his judgement day.
Both Ash and Halle clearly had extremely unpleasant experiences with the creator at the centre of this debacle, but there's a real poignancy
in particular to Halle's testimony, because it's clear that she wanted to believe that Minnie had changed more than anyone else, and that really,
the most frustrating facet to her were all the lies that followed the scenario which she had taken at face value. She gave Minnie an opportunity
to improve, she provided her support to his endeavours, and he took advantage of it. These were their stories to tell, and they didn't tell them
with the intent to destroy his career. If they had felt Minnie had changed his ways, then I think they probably would have let him be.
However, to them, with the discovery that this behaviour had been present in his most recent relationship, even being instrumental to its demise,
it was more than ample evidence that his word could not be trusted. With it out in the open, Minnie Lad would have to convince a much less
sympathetic internet that he would rehabilitate himself, a harder sell for sure, and many who read the allegations didn't see a way back
for Minnie at all. To them, this was unforgivable, and to be honest, it's hard not to see it from that viewpoint when you look at how he
manipulated those around him. How could we trust what he says to anyone past this point if he can't even be honest with those closest to him?
Well, to be honest, the only way would be if he had actually practiced what he preached, and with the allegations garnering traction,
Minnie had no other option but to address them, releasing a statement, accepting full responsibility for his actions, and unreservedly
apologising for the hurt that he caused. Nonetheless, that was the easy part. It was going to be challenging for Minnie to deny the allegations
at this point given their substance, and even from a strategic standpoint, it was the sensible thing to do, so a confession doesn't warrant too much
kudos here. What really mattered were the steps that he was going to take to make amends. In Halley's Twitlonga, she said that she legitimately
thinks Craig is a good person, and that she really just wants him to take ownership of his actions, to seek help, to stop running, and lying to his audience.
The message was clear, and in his response, it seems that Minnie was receptive to this, committing to an indefinite hiatus, and using that time to build back
the trust of those he wronged. Now, of course, many were hesitant to buy into the sincerity of such a pledge, and with valid reason, but at the same time,
it was probably the best we were going to receive, and if he could at least heal some of the wounds that he had inflicted to those in question,
then that would be progress. Many people adopted this perspective, and wanted Minnie to be better, which is very merciful for the internet that I know.
So, what would Craig do with this time away? How would he use it to win back the faith lost from many disillusioned followers, and even friends?
Craig- Hi, how's it going? Hope you're doing good. First thing you probably notice is the background. I'm back in my old studio.
Well, turns out his break lasted shorter than one might anticipate. In fact, it was on par with the post-war break he took at the start of the year,
and most of this intermission appeared to be occupied with relocating back to Northern Ireland, which is also peculiar given that he'd already moved once
at the start of 2020. However, there was an explanation for this.
Craig- I went on this mental health journey, I realized that there's a lot going on in the world, and I know I just need to step away, and I know I just need to take care of myself.
My mental just took a turn for the worse, and I know I needed to get back. I needed to be around the ones who I love. I wanted to work on myself, my mental health journey.
I got myself into therapy for the last month, and it's been incredible. It really has. This has been something I've been putting off for years because I wanted to make sure work was okay,
and I kept up at work, and I just put myself on the back burner, and it made me finally realize that I can't do that anymore.
But it's been nice reconnecting with my roots, reconnecting with who I am, where I grew up. You know, I moved to Northern Ireland when I was 10, 9, 10 years old,
from whenever I was living in Singapore. I came over here, and this has been the place that I call home. I know I just left all of a sudden, but I just, I needed to do something about me.
Right, of course. Going back to his roots to clear his head, this mental health break had clearly revitalized him, and he was ready to start creating content again for his adoring audience.
Wait, didn't something happen? Oh right, yeah, he doesn't really talk about that. Like, at all. In fact, we are met with a 5 minute long slew of rhetoric about how important it is to take care of one's mental health,
that he's not perfect, he needed the time out to work on those imperfections, and that he's been improving himself with every passing day. How inspiring.
Like I said before, I'm back in therapy, and she has been incredible, being able to spell everything onto her, and-
Might want to reconsider the wording on that one, Craig.
Even though this is my first video back, this doesn't mean that I'm gonna just stop working on myself. I've come to realize that the journey of working on yourself isn't just,
I'll do it for a few months, and I'll be alright. It's a journey that never truly ends. As humans, there's no definitive amount of time that if you take this amount of time away and work on yourself, you'll be okay again.
The reality is, this is a journey that myself and all of us are just gonna continue to go through life, and you know, I've come to the realization that I'm never- no one is ever perfect.
People, you can strive for perfection, but as long as you know that no one is perfect, and no one will ever be perfect, the more you realize that, the better you're gonna be.
In summary, he completely avoids disclosing the reason why he took the hiatus in the first place, and decides that his viewers are better off not knowing.
The break was already insultingly short for someone of his status, he could've afforded to take much more time away from the platform that he had misused,
but even if we discount that, the fact that he doesn't even have the humility to be honest with his own audience is more than enough evidence that he hadn't learned from his misconduct.
He also posted a similar statement to Twitter, which although was less offensive given the fact that his previous apology was also just below it for context,
still completely neglected to address any reparations that he had made for his misdeeds, let alone the misdeeds themselves.
It was shady as hell, and almost implied that he had this expectation that it would just blow over if he didn't mention specifics.
I have receipts, and I'm gonna show them again, like maybe right here, where he was talking to his moderators about how in modchat, people are gonna see that this doesn't matter,
and it's gonna die, just gonna- he'll upload in a week, it'll be fine, nobody's gonna care.
You have to be some scumbag, some scumbag with a high enough ego to think that people in your discord, moderators who looked up to you,
are not gonna share those messages with me, who are just gonna let that slide, now.
Well, actually, it seems that's exactly what he expected after chat logs were sent to Halley, in which he states that once people realise that the majority of people don't care,
or don't know, and the brands continue to work with him, it'll all blow over, which is some high-grade arrogance on Minnie's front.
Much of this is revealed in a video uploaded by Halley, which served in part as a response to Sir Ladalot's glorious return to YouTube,
but also as means to provide her story across all platforms, and to make sure it wasn't overshadowed by Minnie's influence.
However, there are more than enough new developments which only tarnish his image further, some to astounding degrees.
She basically was told by Craig to go to Ash, one of the other girls who came out, who dealt with way worse, way worse,
to tell her about his suicide attempt, to make her feel some sort of pity, and then was saying to me, which you'll see now,
just how, if Ash ever came up about this, she would be killing, she would be the person who's responsible for killing thousands of people,
because if people found out who he was, and fans who count on his videos found out about him, they would kill themselves.
It is unbelievable the audacity of this man. So many of his leaked DMs didn't paint him as a person who wanted to know what he could do to atone for his actions,
but more what he would do if such evidence went public, it doesn't reflect remorse or regret, and Halley's video once again showed how manipulative
his hiatus and return had been, yet this time round, it wasn't even subtle, he was basically seeing what he could get away with.
It was a sign of an inflated ego which judged his fans as too stupid to hold him to account. On top of this though, it made his utilisation of points
surrounding mental health seem unbelievably contrived, and brought into question whether he ever believed anything that he said about it.
I appreciate every content creator that came out and spoke and just came out and shared my story, because he is getting away with this pretty easily.
His viewers, a lot of them do not know what's going on, it's not their fault.
Thanks to Halley's response, and other YouTubers covering the situation, publicity of me's antics began to amplify.
It became quite clear that he wasn't going to distance himself from the incidents like he had hoped, and he may have no other option but to talk about them.
But how would he with such damning receipts against him? Well, let's find out.
How much of a massive ego can you have? How much of a fucking disgusting human being can you be, to think you have a right on this platform?
With his first video back, it was initially received decently by those within his committed fanbase. However, with the limelight firmly on his transgressions,
the backlash began to augment into its own movement, with its purpose to remove Mini from the platform altogether, and to make him pay properly for what he had done.
His videos began to accumulate thousands of dislikes, as well as critical comments, ranging from disappointed devotees to outraged onlookers.
There was no way he could filter this out.
He would upload another regular video some 12 days later, without any recognition towards the mounting pressure against him.
However, this was met with even greater hostility from viewers than the previous release, and was indicative that he wasn't simply going to be able to escape this without offering up some explanation.
So come September, there was a new task on the Mini-Lad agenda, and that was to clear the air.
Now, he had done a similar thing with his upload, addressing the separation with Sammy. In hindsight, that video was also flagrantly dishonest,
but at a time where people were none the wiser, it served as a sufficient explanation for where he had been, and the tribulations that he had faced during this period.
This time around, the air was significantly murkier, and there was a lot of seemingly conclusive evidence to confront,
that even the most eloquent of individuals would have difficulty excusing. However, with few other options, Mini had to put his cards on the table.
But was he holding all the aces? Well, no.
Mini-Lad- Hey guys, I wanna talk about a lot of the stuff that's been going on online lately, whether it's through YouTube, or Twitter, or places like that.
I've been reading a lot of your guys' comments as well, and I wanted to formally address everything, but as well as address everything, I wanna talk about a lot of the rumours that are out there, and debunk some of them too.
The video is five minutes long, which is already quite brief given the magnitude of the allegations against him. Okay, sometimes there isn't too much to say, but to be honest,
Mini-Lad doesn't really say much at all.
Mini-Lad- Now that some time has passed, and I've had time to reflect on everything, and get a grand scope of everything that's been going on, I wanted to set the record straight.
After this all came out, I did make a statement on this over on my Twitter, but now I think it's the correct time to sit down and make a video addressing it.
He's quite sly in how he responds to the allegations, instead of focusing on what may be true or not, he turns his attention to what he believes is false, and chooses to quote debunk those,
many of these claims not really constituting the essence of the case against him.
Mini-Lad- The first thing that I wanted to talk about with these allegations is I've never physically met them before, nor have I physically abused anybody across the board.
I wanna make people aware of that, because those are serious allegations, and I wanted to put those rumours to bed.
There are minor admissions here and there, but in some capacities, it could be seen as quite a devious play by our miniature man here.
He's very selective in what he responds to, and although what he says may well be the truth in these specific circumstances, it's hardly the full picture.
For example, on the issue of leaked chat logs regarding some aspects of his hiatus.
Mini-Lad- Some of my old Twitch mods have been leaking and screenshotting messages that I put in the mod chat, where I say that after two weeks that I gave up on therapy.
I wanted to say that this is untrue. After two weeks, I did stop going to a certain therapist, because if you've been to therapy before, you'll know that some therapists just don't fit your needs.
So after two weeks, I changed to a different therapist, and that's someone who I've been going to see every single week since.
Now, once again, this may be the case, I do not know, however, this doesn't address the messages where Mini-Lad appears to dismiss the influence of the accusations against him,
and judges the severity of them on the basis of the impact they'd have on his career.
The hilarious thing is that this video would only be approximately two and a half minutes long if he hadn't added an extra section where he tackles another claim on Twitter, which he asserts to be false.
Mini- This person is accusing me of a few things, so I would like to go through each point individually and debunk them respectively.
The first one is a photo that has come out with me and the two other YouTubers that are there, where a picture of us holding her in the air has come out.
This is a photo taken during a meet and greet at the very end of the summer camp. This is a situation where people are able to come in, they're able to get a photo,
they're able to get one or two things signed, and then they move on. During this, she said that I asked to pick her up.
For the photo, she asked if myself and the other YouTubers could hold her up for the photo, so what she's saying here is untrue.
The second point she brings up is that I sat too close to her and her friends. This part's quite confusing because everyone sat next to everyone else as a part of regular scheduled programming.
At no point was any of us unmonitored as myself, the other YouTubers that were there, also the fans that were there, but there were also adults there and counselors there monitoring everything.
So at no point during this entire summer camp was anybody unsupervised.
The third point they bring up is they claim that I call them cute and pretty. This is completely fabricated and I did not say this. This is untrue.
Like I said in the previous point, at all times during this camp, we were surrounded by camp workers and counselors to ensure the safety of myself,
and ensure the safety of them, and ensure the safety of everyone else. At all times, they could hear everything that I was saying, so this could not have happened.
I cannot possibly comment on the verity of Minnie Ladd's retort here, because he has been shown at multiple times to have lied at his convenience,
so denying an allegation which doesn't have any physical proof would practically be second nature to the man.
However, the incident does give him one last chance to address his malfeasance with Halle, Ash, and many others as well.
The situation with the other two people that I said on Twitter was a situation where my behavior was unacceptable, and I understand that, and I will continue to strive to do better.
A very mature reflection, Minnie, you've really outdone yourself there, cracking introspection.
In spite of this, some people defending him on this point may say, well, Minnie Ladd did address this in his Twitter statement,
he does reference that as a whole here, we can't expect him to just continuously bring up what he's already admitted to.
Maybe this statement is meant to be on the new claims. I could formulate many responses to such perspective, however, probably the most irrefutable one would point towards the fact that he has ignored all new claims that are harder to respond to,
such as the dismissive DMs, or the screenshots where he basically places the lives of his fans on those he has maltreated.
This is extremely selective, and it doesn't clear the air whatsoever, he's just added smoke and mirrors.
I outlined it in my original tweet back in June at the bottom, saying that I will be working on myself, and I will be attending therapy from now on into the future,
and a lot of people deem that to be untrue, but I want to be here on record saying that since then, I have been going to therapy every single week, and I will continue to go to therapy every single week.
The video also doesn't contain any evidence either, it's just him smiling and asking you to trust him, which people don't.
That should have been at least part of the reason that you made the video in the first place, you need to restore people's faith in you, and you can't do that if you provide people with no substantiation to your attestations.
He opens the video talking about transparency and setting the record straight, but he fails to do so on every count.
This video underlines the main point that he failed to dispel, the pattern of manipulative behaviour that has been the driving force behind a lot of his worst offences,
as a matter of fact, it's pretty decisive evidence that his crooked propensities are alive and kicking, and people were fast to identify that.
It's pretty obvious this video is just here to save his career, I guess, and in order to do that, he has to not focus on the real problem, and address things that aren't even real, or just other allegations that just came out.
Many creators and individuals involved were fast to call Craig out on his manoeuvres, and inability to show growth in the situation.
It was a sign that he was prone to repeating this all over again, this was exasperating, and so many people were incensed that he could even use a video like this to once more try and find a way to evade confrontation.
Speaking of evasions, many were beginning to suspect he had other motives for moving back to Northern Ireland as well, allegedly he is in Texas now, but it's hard to trust anyone's word at this point.
For me, I've always wanted to use my platform for good, I've always wanted to portray a positive message here, and I know there's nothing I can say right now that will change your guys' minds, and that's okay.
But I hope, looking forward to the future, that whether it's in the coming weeks, or the coming months, or the coming years, that what I say right now, you can take as the truth.
Regardless, a lesson was being taught. These situations would only escalate with every poorly made response you put out,
with more and more attention being brought towards its actions, it was clear that Craig was too ignorant or too fragile to actually properly confront what he'd done,
and people weren't just gonna let him off the hook via rhetorical inertia. So what could Mini-Lad do under these circumstances?
Well, this is where it becomes quite bizarre.
In certain situations, there are no preferable options, and as a person who had been caught in a series of half-truths and outright lies,
there was no panacea for Mini-Lad's woes, every option had a variety of drawbacks.
Nonetheless, after the deluge of ubiquitous condemnation following his clearing the air video, the smart option would be to leave for a much longer spell,
and actually use that time to work on himself, or at least pretend to. He has a large subscriber base, and although he had his monetisation's complications here and there,
he's almost certainly made more than enough to live off. I hope his family would be happy to support him alleviating these glaring infirmities,
and if he was actually receiving therapy, then he could take the time out until those results began to show.
Nevertheless, he demonstrably had a deep connection to his YouTube channel, and wanted to upload again. He wanted this behind him,
which wouldn't be possible if he committed to another break, so another option would be to try his luck at addressing the allegations again,
this time in a more comprehensive manner. It was unlikely to win too many over, but it may curve some of the malaise that had persisted throughout the situation.
However, this would only work if he could make a somewhat coherent case for himself, and with the abundance of evidence against him,
many were doubtful of his prospects at effectively justifying or even explaining the mentality behind much of his exploits.
So out of these two, the first option did still seem more probable, but little did we know there was an option C,
which although not impractical, did seem rather foolish, even to someone of Minilad's present notoriety.
That option would be to resume an upload schedule like nothing had happened at all, yet this was the option that Mini exercised.
It's been ten months since the last video, I miss gaming, so that being said, shall we?
Yes, only eight days after his clone the Air Blunder, he uploads a video called Internet's craziest gaming glitches.
I'm not sure if the missed apostrophe is an oversight or a cry for help, but to summarise, in his video, he reacts to the popular subreddit r slash game physics,
imparting priceless insight with his reactions to the titular forum. This video appears to have been recorded while he was still in his previous accommodation,
and thus seems to be a planned release, but regardless of when it was made, the Minilad flare was shining through.
Okay.
Go on.
Big brain! Huge brain! That is 4000 IQ!
They bring care packages out on drones? Bro, future crazy!
I'm so glad that Mini has continued uploading, aren't you? What would we ever do with content like this?
Though I do sometimes wonder if he was inserting subliminal messages within his text.
In a nutshell, everyone I was growing up, whenever I was in school, I was always so afraid like,
adulthood seems so scary, like even like the year above you, you're like,
the older ones, God has forsaken you, I am but a mere squire compared to the year above,
and then you think of people when they're like 21, you're like, oh, they have their life together,
they're gonna have their own 401k pensions, they're gonna have a wife and kids,
and then you get there and you realise that the world has no idea what's going on
95% of the time. As a guy who's 25 years old right now, not a clue. Just remember that,
going forth in life, you're gonna take away anything from this video, take away this.
No one has a clue.
Now, as MiniLad videos go, this was nothing particularly different from the routine content
that many would have expected from his channel, but there was definitely an element of it which
seems strained given the state of affairs. Either Mini didn't actually care for the charges levied
against him, or he's contriving a persona to try and cover up the fact that it bothers him.
Both of these rationalisations imply that the happy-go-lucky attitude is a pretext for a very
cynical ploy to ride out the stigma he was facing. This philosophy was exhibited in the leaked DMs,
people forget, and move on. That's what he's hoping. When the critics forget,
you'll be left with your dedicated audience who are much more interested in your output,
rather than the actual moral conundrum of viewing someone of that character.
And who would want to miss out on the premium laughs like those supplied by MiniLad?
With that said, his plan didn't quite work out as intended. His reddit reaction video broke even
between likes and dislikes, and future uploads didn't fare much better. His next offering was
a let's play of Flight Simulator, which, although producing no exceptional in-game moments,
did stimulate some pretty hilarious comments, the sort that MiniLad would react to,
though he hasn't yet. Good idea, Craig, write that one down. That aside, his ratio was much worse on
this video, with the likes more than halving, and the dislikes actually increasing on the previous
upload. His next video didn't show signs of improvement either, although he did secure
a sponsorship for it. It was your job to bring the speaker. You go to your car and you realise
the speaker is dead. What are you going to do? Your friends are never going to trust you again.
You're never going to get invited out anywhere again. Your life is going to come spiralling down.
Jimmy, with the brand new Cove Commuter 2, you'll never have to worry about that again.
With its amazing seven hour battery life, a subwoofer on both hands to play bangers
with volume like this. What more do you need? However, once people made his partner's
Cove aware of MiniLad's capers, the video was removed on the company's request.
I almost want to give points for the sheer goal of finding a sponsor to work with, in spite of
knowing the inevitable backlash the business would face, but I won't because it's MiniLad, and MiniLad
deserves nil poi. It seems that with every attempt that Mini made to elude the critical masses,
it merely invigorated them more, predominantly because people saw it for what it was, and they
weren't going to forget it just because MiniLad wanted them to. This, ladies and gentlemen,
is a mistake. Every video since followed a similar trend, with users flooding his comments,
his ratings, and every conceivable route that may allow Mini back into the mainstream.
YouTube also took it upon themselves to punish him as well, revoking his AdSense partnership,
thus preventing him from generating revenue via commercials. The videos themselves are
pretty mediocre, the thumbnails make me feel like I'm living in some dystopian nightmare,
the shark in this one looks about as fed up as Craig shit as most people are. In his newest
video at the time of writing, which will be a long time ago at this point, the hot chip one,
the video literally opens with Comic Sans, and once again, not sure if to read that as a cry
for help, but MiniLad was the only one who could make that move. I wasn't sure how many videos it
was going to take for Mini to realise that the internet denizens weren't letting this one go,
and that he's actually suffered far more by putting on this scene, but it was rather awkward
and embarrassing for anyone who's aware of the situation, especially former fans, to watch this
man who was once respected reduced to an outcast who literally eat hot chip and lie. With every
upload, he besmirched his reputation further, and obscured his road to redemption. At first,
it seemed to be a calculated move to temper the odium towards him, but at a certain point,
it just seemed to be a desperate default to familiarity, because he couldn't think of
anything else. Everything that we once knew is now gone. It's tragic for all involved, many of whom
just want closure above all, but have to watch this man dance on the grave of his legacy because
he's too proud to actually face down his actions. But unfortunately, we can't be overly surprised at
this. It's been something present for longer than many have probably considered.
However, eventually, after numerous further failed attempts to shirk the situation at hand,
he had a sudden change of heart, and we finally had something to seriously discuss.
The original plan was to release this video at the end of December, as a way to depict
Mini Ladd's continuous failure to move past this controversy. However, before I could release it,
our friend Craig decided to defy expectations, dropping a video where he appears to tackle
the allegations head on. In this video, he addresses some of the messages in question,
explains his motives, and apologises profusely. Initially, this was well received by his intimate
fanbase, but once again, as other commentators caught wind of it, momentum turned once more
against him, for a variety of reasons that I'll briefly talk about now. Some of these people
responded to him by once more chastising his actions, which isn't wrong, but he's not
necessarily defending them in this circumstance, so saying he shouldn't have done it is somewhat
redundant because he's not disputing it. Others went in on the evidence that he admitted, such as
various comments we've discussed prior that really do not flatter his character in any way, and I
generally agree with this stance, given how the comments could definitely be indicative of his
own personal attitudes. If he wanted to be fully transparent, he should have included them.
However, it's also important to note those comments are primarily self-incriminating in
the fact that they are an inadequate way to address his misdeeds, and this video may serve
as a fresh attempt to try and reflect on his initial actions, like saving a new word document
over a previous one. I don't necessarily agree with it, but given how others have already pointed
it out, I figured I'd approach this upload from a different angle. Now, I'm aware that Minilad has
not been particularly honest in confronting his actions, and for many, there isn't much of an
incentive to believe the explanations he provides here. However, for the sake of discourse, I am
going to entertain that position and see what can be said for it, and if there are any points of
value that can be drawn from his long overdue apology, I am going to listen to Minilad, I am
even going to try and believe him, and attempt to impart some words of wisdom at least.
One of the first points that Craig goes in on is this one, the relationship between
himself and his accusers. This serves as some context to the discourse surrounding his intent,
his point being that he possessed a closer prior relationship with the other individuals involved
than many may have assumed in the past. In the context of his actions, if this was true, it would
serve to marginally reduce that power deficit between him and those his actions affected,
in comparison to that between him and a random fan for example.
It also serves as an indirect assertion for why he may have wrongfully assumed that the people
he shared these antics with were mentally prepared to interact with him on that level,
and appealed to his ignorance rather than malice.
The problem is that although this may be applicable with Hallie, he doesn't really
provide it with Ash, which points to one of the most pressing issues regarding this whole shambles.
However, Mini still has his explanations for his actions to convey.
Now, a lot of people gave him criticism for this comment, claiming that he was trying to use suicide
as a scapegoat, but that's a very shaky argument for me on its own. At the end of the day, we all
have mindsets that can affect our actions, and if that was the one that affected Mini Ladd's actions,
then so be it. Although what he did was extremely wrong, and his position assumes accountability,
being an adult does not make you an infallible being. There's no holy grail of wisdom that you
sit from, people do bad things, it doesn't mean they're eternally damned to be bad people.
However, the reasoning behind those actions is invaluable in my opinion, and this is where Mini
Ladd's perspective begins to buckle for certain audience members. There are many reasons that I
can understand why someone may behave out of order, desperation, deprivation, but I have to
admit that I find suicide to be a curious rationalisation, especially in the context
that Mini presents. He doesn't just present the thought as one's impending death as an explanation
for his actions, but as a motivation for his actions, this idea that if he was going to go out,
then he might as well go out with his greatest vice. But if your own mortality is the only thing
keeping you from behaving in such a way, then it just pays more testimony to this idea that
you're a self-interested charlatan. Your moral compass shouldn't be based on the consequences
that you personally have to face down for your actions, especially given their severity,
however at the same time, he does also acknowledge this not too long after.
Mini Ladd- The reality is I was being selfish, I wasn't thinking about repercussions, I wasn't
thinking about anything, I was just being stupid, and I really want to apologise for that. I just
wasn't thinking, and I regret it, I've regretted it since, and for that, for both Halle and Ash,
I'm really sorry.
As a matter of fact, he pretty much admits to having a completely crooked objective in the
interruptions, which may make some wonder why he tried to humanise it in the first place. The way
I see it is once again to mediate his actions, to try and distance himself from narratives that may
paint him in a more Austin Jones style predator light, which I don't think he is, although there
are some parallels. He wants to make his actions somewhat tangible to his viewers while being
suitably self-critical, it's the best balance for a video like this, but it doesn't feel completely
compatible, thus meaning it doesn't land for a majority of his detractors, and even those who
may be sympathetic towards him. Why?
Mini Ladd- Whenever I saw them coming out with my message I sent them, I sent them this,
this isn't me, that's not right, it's something that I completely regret. I panicked, I was
scared, I didn't know what to do, and I just, I love my job so much that I didn't want it to go
away, and I just wasn't right. So to Halle and to Ash here at the end up, and even to Laura for
bringing that up, I'm sorry guys, you were, you were my friends, I failed you, I was only thinking
of myself and I was being stupid, and I wish I could take it all back.
Well there's obviously the case of too little too late, but I think the greater point that it
represents is this personal change. As said, I don't think being an adult makes you invulnerable
to misconduct, and although it is exceptionally irresponsible given his level of influence,
and he is right to be called out for it, your relative size does not make you a fountain of
wisdom. I've always advocated a live and learn philosophy, if someone has demonstrated a change
in their behaviour, evolved and grown as a person, then I will be the first to back them. The issue
is that as a large creator, he already had a relatively small domain to prove growth that
may come with evolving life circumstances, but on top of that, he just failed to do so.
His failure was what provoked this in the first place, in fact he only cared when his income began
to suffer, and because he attempted to ignore it completely until that point, there's no trust in
his word, whether it was coincidence or not. I could believe that he was afraid and scared for
his career and everything he might lose, that's an understandable fear, but the fact of the matter is
that he lost more by continuing to take advantage of people's charity and showing that he had not
changed, whether he was scared or not. This is also why he couldn't afford to ignore his previous
failures to address it properly, and other rather dismissive comments. Now he does have an
explanation for his subpar responses, which he kinda slips in. This idea of the PR team,
now I've heard of these PR team's out of touch lawyers and the rest, and they can really provide
genuinely garbage guidance because they probably learn from the playbook of OJ Simpson,
which is a whole different arena. However, once again, it's hard to say if this is just a scapegoat,
and even if it isn't, you gotta have some strength of character to not rely on other people to get
you out of a mess you put yourself in. You didn't need a PR team to solicit explicit content,
so what is the difference here? I feel for many this illustrated the crux of the matter,
how much of it rode on how people interpreted Mini Ladd's own character in the sincerity of
his actions. He admits that he behaved terribly and manipulated many people whom he shouldn't
have. He's worked on himself, but I think his failure to address it has made his actions look
even more incriminating. People do shitty things, make bad decisions, enter toxic dynamics. The
thing is, many people do it because they either don't know better or their judgement has been
impaired by other factors to the point where they have a reduced capacity to understand the possible
ramifications that their behaviour may entail. However, there are key nuances here that do make
Mini Ladd's behaviour exceptional, and whether people can articulate it or not, they know it's
there. As a launch creator, he targeted and became involved with people who had a specific servitude
to him prior. Now, as expressed, he did have pre-existing friendships with these people in a
way, and I can understand why he wanted to clarify that, because that can yield attachments sometimes
that lose context of significant details, particularly online. It does challenge this idea
that he was pursuing people for the sole reason that they were underage. However, this explanation
is only really remotely sympathetic if it was based on genuine feelings he possessed, which as
much of the evidence and his own elaboration shows really wasn't. He didn't have feelings for these
people, he could have had anyone's attention for such images, which makes his actions seem even
more dirty and opportunistic. When it comes to his behaviour towards his victims, he basically
coerced what he needed out of them and dipped, that's conscious sexual exploitation. Their
judgement was already impacted by their own affection towards him, and his judgement,
although possibly limited by his then present mentality, was merely influenced to disregard
the wellbeing of those he affected. He often did speak down to them, and reading the DMs,
even without the rest of the context, it is somewhat discomforting. The fact that he behaved
in this way specifically undermines any possible context that friendship could provide. His video
also skirts around his most serious misdeeds, and frames it as mostly flirting, and although
his interactions may have primarily occupied that category, the more severe individual incidents
supersede any of the more minor ones. Frequency of occurrence in this case is a secondary factor.
Minilab was purposeful with intent, and that's the most damning feature. He manipulated people
for his own gratification, there was nothing sincere about his actions, so when he puts his
failures in responding down to a dysfunctional PR team, it's not trustworthy, because this PR
team appears to have advised him to maintain the same pattern of behaviour that landed himself
in this mess in the first place, a pattern of behaviour he should have corrected a long time
ago. He credits himself for defying his PR team by messaging apologies to those his actions
affected, but he can't say those messages were written with sincere intent when they were sent
months after he was first called out in August, and done while he continued to refuse to address
the apt requests of those he affected. Minilab's actions were exacerbated by his character,
an arrogant yet fragile ego which fed on the validation of people who were too blinded by
their own perception of him. If Craig had been similarly deluded and cleaned up his act, then
there may be a case for him, but as it is, it seemed indicative of his character. He may genuinely
be regretful now, but it also may be a case of not realising what he had until it was gone.
At the same time, it could just be another case of his manipulation, so let's talk about that.
The
YouTube is my life. I've been doing it full time for seven, eight years now. You know,
the Minilab channel is ten years old next year and it's all I know. It's what I love. It's my
passion. It's what I wake up every day and I love to do. And I realise over the last even few years
that I just haven't put the love and attention into it. And you know what I want. I want,
I want it to be like a portfolio of the cool things that I've done and I want to rekindle
myself. I want to find out who I am. Not Minilab, not anything like that. I want to find Craig.
In spite of your criticisms, when you finish watching his apology video, it's easy to feel
a bit more closure with regards to the situation, and many did. Even those involved, such as Halley,
asked those hawky Minilab to move on. After all, he has done what was asked of him by those his
actions affected. In some ways, the video may make you feel more inclined to trust that this time
he's genuine in his desire to change. From that perspective, it would be fair to leave it behind.
However, it could easily just be another calculated move, one that he's pulled before,
and I think it's fair to keep an eye on that for if he ever decides to return one day.
If there's one, if there's one thing from this that I want to be a flip is this. I am so fed up
and tired. Honestly, I'm so fed up and tired of seeing all these drama channels, uh, doing stories
and giving the wrong information in the story. On June the 10th, just a couple of weeks before much
of what would lead us to where we are today would transpire, Minilab had released another apology,
this one towards Terrorizer. In the statement, he expressed regret for what he said and desire
to rebuild the friendship they once had. This was met with praise from many within the community.
However, one person appeared to refrain from accepting this offering of peace, Terrorizer
himself. Following the rather heated exchange at the end of August, Brian had mostly rebuffed any
attempt at settlement between the two parties, in spite of many's pleas and claims that the hatchet
had been buried. At points, he'd even been characterised as stubborn or unreasonable due
to his unwillingness to reconcile with his former companion. However, I think he was completely
within his rights to decline any step towards reproachment, because this didn't seem to be a
case of differing perspectives, this was a situation where someone publicly and knowingly
attacked a person on a very sensitive subject in a way that could have harmed multiple relationships.
We all snap sometimes and say things that we probably shouldn't, however, our friends will
appreciate that they probably came from a place of emotion. Emotionally driven perspectives may
be irrational but will reflect what someone perceives in the moment. It was very hard to see
how Minilab could have interpreted the situation in the way he presented it, and therefore with
Brian's context, he couldn't read it as anything other than pernicious point scoring. It was
emotional manipulation because Minilab presented his case in calm, reasoned good faith, while
making multiple claims that were dubious at best and malicious at worst.
Just thinking about that whole thing pisses me off.
Alright, can we move on? Let's move on. Alright, let's not talk about stupid drama.
Terroriser was just another victim of this, but people didn't see it that way until the
extent of Mini's manipulation became clear.
I felt so fucking terrified. I was just trying to be a good friend. I was just trying to be a
good friend, and I thought that's what he thought I was, but all I was was a goddamn tool.
A goddamn tool to keep, to keep anybody from knowing who he truly was.
The allegations that preceded nearly a fortnight after his apology to Brian didn't just serve in
exposing Minilab's indecency, but also as further evidence for the degree of puppetry he was
employing to solicit what he desired, even if that material in question was illegal. He would argue
over the age of consent and so on, the differences in certain states and countries. Setting aside
the point that the age of consent doesn't parallel the laws regarding exchange of explicit images in
many places, it's not just that detail at play here, it's the fact that he actively pursued
younger fans who looked up to him and used his influence to acquire content that they otherwise
would not have consented to giving. A lot of people focus on the sexual nature of what he did,
which is definitely a factor, but I think his actions are also implicative, not in that he's
some serial pedo, but more that he exploited people to solicit something he desired, which is
aggravated by the nature of the content. Even the Twitlonga emphasises manipulation. Hell, what
further provoked people to come forward was the result of a consensual relationship with another
adult. The concern wasn't just that Minilab had a bad habit or a bad addiction, one that he may well
have left behind, but that he was a fundamentally broken person who refused to fix himself. He knew
he was doing that, and he knew exactly how to present himself in a way that would appeal to
various emotional fraities. When confronted, he once more appealed to their pity and sympathy,
pledging to seek help and support, and reinforcing the fact that he was a changed man. The saddest
thing is that people like Halle held off on going public because they genuinely believed this,
they knew the internet would be hostile, and they wanted to give Minilab a chance to have a career
in spite of his actions, but he manipulated them on this as well, and when it became apparent to
them that he had behaved no differently in his previous relationships, they knew there was no
other option. The internet was hostile, but when Minilab put out his response, admitting to his
malefaction, and promising the rectification that would be incumbent on him, many actually did
respond somewhat optimistically, stating that although his actions were terrible, they hoped he'd
receive the help he needed. However, this post would prove to be only the start of the greatest,
yet most transparent manipulation as of now, the largest proverbial middle finger to all those his
actions affected.
Minilab- If I leave the house, that means I'm not able to work on my videos, and I'm not able to work on this
thing and that thing, and it became such a mind game that I lost myself. And that's, it's hard to
admit, but it's the reality of it. I lost myself, but I'm happy to say that I'm regathering it, I'm
finding my roots again.
A pair of recorded statements that would attempt to deceive his fans into thinking that his hiatus
was actually inspired by the need to find himself, and that many of the allegations were misguided or
ill-founded, in spite of the fact that many of that which he focused on did not come close to aggregating
the crux of the matter, once more revealing his duplicitous nature, and provoking further backlash.
Minilab- It's terrible. And the fact that we got five minutes of no genuine, like, feelings through that whole
thing, as a person who knew him, or thought I did, uh, yeah, that didn't seem very goddamn genuine.
This led to what can only be regarded as a content implosion of unprecedented scale, consistently being
harangued from all angles, and growing more and more pathetic with the passage of time, highlighting
this desperation. Whether it was arrogance, ignorance, or something that we don't know, he was essentially
adding a coat of paint to a train wreck. Maybe manipulation is all he knew, maybe it's all he's ever
known. Watching him game and laugh like nothing was going on was arguably more annoying than anything
else for those he's wronged, and it brought into question all the times he's claimed to care, and the
times he's used those narratives to provide him with greater moral gravitas. Some people point
towards his charity work as if it defends his character, but with the current circumstances
considered, I think it only entrenches the fraud, it made every good action seem contrived for
self-serving purposes, it made Mini Ladd's existence seem manipulative. If Mini Ladd really
cared so much about the fans whose lives were on the line in those DMs, he would have gone out of
his way to prove he was a good person, and to rebuild that lost faith.
Let him know. Y'all thought you were done with me, huh? Yeah, enjoy that award, you prick. It's the last
one you're gonna get. I'm sorry. I've dealt with a lot of miscreants on this channel, and many of them
have done terrible things, but a lot of the time I don't find myself hating them for what they've
done, but more how they respond when finally having to confront their actions. The hubris,
the insolence, the absurdity. Mini Ladd is the epitome of moral desertion under fire.
If people showed that they had improved, or that they were working on themselves, although it may
be hard to look at them in the same way you did before, you can at least feel hope that they might
find themselves, or support them on that journey, and return to being a positive force in people's
lives at some point in the future. There's no hope here, only whatever you call this.
Mini Ladd says he's been seeing a therapist, and I'm genuinely glad. However, I hope his hiatus this
time will be more serious than any previous ones undertaken, and I hope his therapist and those
around him emphasise this, because it seems to me that he's still got a bit of a way to go on this
journey, and these videos are hardly instrumental to that. I say this with the proviso that his
therapist is real, and it's not just another story, but looking at his past, this can sometimes feel
like wishful thinking, and that's a shame.
...
Walking around casually, then you got these guys, you are my penis!
Being caught up in the past is like being caught in quicksand, the more struggling you do, the more it
seems to consume you, but you can't just escape it at your own convenience, you need someone to help you out.
...
Mini Ladd spent many years ascending the YouTube hierarchy, and amassing a loyal fan base. However,
his position below Banos always motivated him to aspire for a greater role as an independent creator.
In many ways, he wanted to disconnect from that association, he wanted to leave the past behind,
however, it wasn't just that, he wanted to enshrine his status as an individual, and in my opinion,
outshine his erstwhile colleagues. Now, in many regards, these two objectives aren't in opposition
to each other, many would argue that actually crafting your own identity is part of moving forward
as a creator. However, I think looking at his old comments, there was an insecurity, a desire to be
something greater for the sake of it, a necessity to prove himself at any expense. With many of his
accomplishments, Mini appeared to be heading in the direction of writing himself into the YouTube
history books as an unequivocal force for good, his work for charity receiving widespread
recognition and acclaim. However, whether due to circumstances or complacency, the mask began to slip.
All they did was play Fortnite and Gmod and then talk shit about other YouTubers.
In this reflection of his past, he showed that whether he had changed in status, his character hadn't really
followed. What many may perceive as trash talk may just have been another underhanded attempt to sway
audiences away from those he used to be close to. In a drama with Terrorizer that his comments subsequently
precipitated, he showed that he had a much greater interest in his image, rather than the truth,
using people's limited perspective on past circumstances to twist the version of events and
capitalize on people's sympathies. After being caught out in his ploy, he changed his tone,
switching to one about moving forward, in spite of his failure to sufficiently convince his old friend
that was really what he cared about. This is because, to move forward, you have to believe that the person
has changed from their past self, and the simple truth was that Mini-Lad hadn't, and in the following
year, this was proven time.
Mini-Lad- I went on this mental health journey.
And time.
Mini- She would be the person who's responsible for killing thousands of people.
Mini- I wanted to set the record straight.
Again. In his videos after the allegations, Mini tried to implant this narrative into the viewer's minds
about journeys, and personal progress, while simultaneously failing to acknowledge what he was meant to be
progressing from, using the general distaste of concepts like cancel culture in attempting to override the
shock value that detailing his actions may provoke.
At the start, I said that we all want to move on from our past, and we don't want it held over us.
That remains true, and I'll always defend someone who I legitimately believe has changed their ways,
but I also said if we don't acknowledge it, then we are prone to repeating it.
In many ways, Mini showed that the past was still present, and that he hadn't grown nor learned from his
previous abasement, utilizing the narratives, but failing to respect their meaning.
The allegations weren't just their own indictment of Mini-Lad's behaviour,
they were a test of his character, and he flunked them miserably.
This was a situation where he had used his power as a YouTuber in multiple ways.
It was crucial to his status as a public figure that he cleared the air, yet he failed to do so.
In fact, he only polluted it more.
This is why people didn't move on, this is why people were vocal.
There were so many willing to give Mini a second chance, including those close to him,
but he just tried to distance himself from the consequences while projecting the exact same
behaviour that screwed over so many people previously.
It seemed he was hoping he'd tire out all those who were trying to maintain the heat,
and possibly even provoke sympathy from those who may not have felt favourably
towards the continuing backlash, but it was all to no avail.
Eventually, he did address the allegations against him more directly,
but it was hard to trust his word because it felt like his hand was forced.
If no one had ever applied that pressure, would he have continued to ignore it?
That's a very important question.
I didn't know where I was going.
I didn't try and make anything of it.
Damn, my first, my only goal I ever had on YouTube is I wanted to hit 100 subscribers.
Now the channel's on nearly 6 million.
This one's on 1.3.
I wanted to hit 100.
That's all I wanted.
And you guys came along and you changed my life infinitely, and for that I'm forever grateful.
For every single person watching this video, that means you saw this video,
you clicked on it, and you support me in that, and I thank you for that.
If what's spoken about today makes you feel sad or disappointed as a former or present fan of his,
then that's okay.
You're not a bad person for having looked up to someone who you thought was a good person.
It's just important to not allow yourself to be trapped in that past romanticisation
of what you thought that person was.
Many has used his reputation and how people admired him to hold others hostage,
and you deserve to be more than ammunition for a narcissist's bloated ego.
At the same time, if you want to help him make that change,
like he says he wants to at this point, then I can't stop you on principle.
It's not my job as a viewer or spectator to tell you exactly what he thinks right now,
and I don't think anyone losing everything they have for the rest of their lives
is gonna help with rehabilitation,
but know that it has to be a highly cautious investment,
because his track record shows he's taken advantage of what he's been given far too often.
As for Mini, I'll leave the internet to decide what they want to do with him.
Many want him off the platform altogether.
Some want him to face charges, but to be honest, whatever the outcome,
the blame falls squarely at his feet.
It's not something he's going to be leaving behind.
Past, present, or future.
This reality reveals that Mini-Lad perhaps never cared about all those he claimed to,
and that may be the greatest letdown.
He tied himself to the point of mental health, claiming to be a friend,
doing all these wonderful things,
yet behind the scenes would use the association to merely protect the facade,
and silence those who wanted to tear it down.
The Mini-Lad saga is probably one of the most disheartening stories to cover,
because I think so many expected better,
and extended compassion towards him with the hope that he would be better.
But many only cared about what people thought,
rather than how they felt.
He recognised how many viewed him, and used it for his own gratification.
He saw those ready to speak out and engineered silence.
He exploited a sympathetic audience,
but failed to extend the same sympathy to those his actions affected.
The one thing he could never seem to do was the right thing,
and that's the single consistency I'll give him credit for.
Mini-Lad is the personification of 2020,
a continuous cycle of the open expectation of improvement,
followed by disappointment when we realise the true extent of the depravity.
It is depressing, and in times like these, it is easy for the stress to make one reminisce.
At the start, I spoke about returning to the bygone days,
a time where there were fewer worries, everything seemed simpler.
I want this space, this channel, this area to be somewhere that people can come in and feel welcome,
then they can leave with a smile on their face, and be happy.
That's all that I want.
In Mini-Lad's clearing the air video, and his subsequent apology,
he showed a yearning for that himself,
a desire to restore that ethos with his channel,
and in a way, this may have been followed through in certain uploads.
However, for audience members,
you can't do that until you've shown that you were the person that people thought you were before.
It changed the meaning of the content, they were no longer the feel-good escape for some,
they were part of the ordeal.
People weren't smiling, the facade was incontrovertible, and many had to drop the act,
and realise that this would not wash, it was no longer the same.
Times change, but it's not always the things around that change, more so our knowledge of them.
The past Mini-Lad was the present Mini-Lad, we unfortunately, or fortunately, just know more now,
and whether you still wish to go back to a time of blissful ignorance, you're at the end of the video.
So that's not an option. Apologies.
I don't expect daffodils and rainbows after this.
I want it to be raw.
I want you guys to build up trust in me over time, and
I want to be able to make videos that I'm proud of,
and I want to be able to be better, and that's what I wanted to say.
So that's the end of the video.
Woo, I'm here, I'm alive still.
I want to give a big thanks to my editors, they're probably somewhere in existence right now,
having a nice, maybe not so nice day, and send them some love if you can,
I'll leave their links in the pinned comments.
Big thanks to the Patrons, Patrons, I've got that word right now,
the $10 Patrons are on screen currently.
I'd like to give a big thanks to my $50 Patreon,
your support is eternally appreciated.
A very, very special thank you also to Marlowe, my $100 Patreon,
it means the world to me, thank you so much, it's great to have you on board.
I'd also like to give a big thanks to Artis, who's Artis featured in this video.
Artis used on the channel are generally credited as well in the pinned comments,
and if your art is used and you'd like credit for that, then you can contact me on my email.
I don't really have too much else to add, my socials, as always, will be in the bottom
of the pinned comment, or somewhere around there, I don't know, depends what I'm doing,
but yes, I don't really have too much else to add.
I hope you guys have a good day, take care, I'm The Right Opinion, and I'll see you in the next one.